# OpenGL-Final-3D-Scene

                                                                                 Reflection
      I approach designing software with a creative mindset that seeks to simplify the solution. Finding a solution is not the end of my software design process, but rather a step. I believe in fine tuning a solution to be a better solutions. My work on this project helped me craft new design skills like concept development from beginning to end, rendering 3D objects, applying textures, creating lighting, and enabling navigation of a window through various input controls.  I used graph paper in my design process to identify coordinates and I modified images using the Paint application to create textures for all of the objects. This project required multiple photoshoots and stops to the doughnut shop. These tactics helped me be attentive to detail and were free to use. In future work, I can use other programs and physical representations to aid in the software design process. 

      My design and code development process follow an iterative approach. Throughout my work on this project I tested and retested designs, functions, loops, and structures. New development strategies that I used while working on my 3D scene were abstraction to sperate coordinates and breaking up code into functions so that the main function within the source file is short, simple, and clean. I also find myself utilizing data structures more. Iteration is the most significant factor in my program development because it enables me to build on my program to make a better program. The work for this project was divided into milestones. Each week, I completed a milestone that required me to add more functionality and detail to my scene which led me to the project’s completion. My approach to developing code has evolved to use milestones to separate the work required to complete a project because it is an effective strategy to maintain organization and meet deadlines. 

      I believe that computer science can help me in reaching my goals by providing me the foundations I need to become an analytical problem-solver with a create eye. Computational graphics and visualizations gives me knowledge and skills that can be applied in my future educational pathway by providing me the understanding of how to use libraries like GLFW, GLEW, Glad, and glm. I can also apply this knowledge and skill to my professional pathway if I ever need to create 3D objects. I think of this project and computational graphics and visualizations as another tool in my toolkit. Also I look at it as a significant personal achievement. I knew nothing about OpenGL 8 weeks ago and now I have created a 3D scene. I feel more confident in my learning and can hopefully feel less stressed when obstacles come up during future projects.  

